Update flight_tasks.md (#970)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/concept/flight_tasks.md

*Flight Tasks* are used within [Flight Modes](../concept/flight_modes.md) to provide specific movement behaviours: e.g. follow me, or flight smoothing.

## Video

> The following vidoes provide an overview of flight tasks in PX4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following videos provide an overview of flight tasks in PX4.
```

> The first covers the state of tasks in PX4 v1.9.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first covers the state of the flight task framework in PX4 v1.9.
```

The second is an update, which covers the changes in PX4 v1.11.

#### PX4 Flight Task Architecture Overview (PX4 Developer Summit 2019)

A description of how flight modes work in PX4 v1.9 (Dennis Mannhart, Matthias Grob).

@[youtube](https://youtu.be/-dkQG8YLffc) <!-- datestamp:video:youtube:20190704:PX4 Flight Task Architecture Overview — PX4 Developer Summit 2019 -->

#### Overview of multicopter control from sensors to motors (PX4 Developer Summit Virtual 2020)

@[youtube](https://youtu.be/orvng_11ngQ?t=560) <!-- datestamp:video:youtube:20200720:Overview of multicopter control from sensors to motors — PX4 Developer Summit Virtual 2020 From 9min20sec - Section on flight tasks-->

The relevent section of this video is an update of flight tasks in PX4 v11.1 at (9min 20sec).
The [slides can be found here (PDF)](https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/px4developersummitvirtual2020/1b/PX4%20Developer%20Summit%202020%20-%20Overview%20of%20multicopter%20control%20from%20sensors%20to%20motors.pdf) - Slides 9 and 12 are relevant.

## Creating a Flight Task

> Flight tasks are [PX4 modules/applications](../modules/hello_sky.md) that contain a task definition class derived from [FlightTask](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/FlightTask/FlightTask.hpp).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A flight task is a class in the flight task framework derived from the base class [FlightTask](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks/FlightTask/FlightTask.hpp). Its goal is to generate setpoints for the controller from arbitrary input data, where each task implements the desired vehicle behavior for a specific mode.
```

> Programmers typically reimplement the `activate()` and `update()` virtual methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Programmers typically override the `activate()` and `update()` virtual methods by calling the base task's minimal implementation and extending with the implementation of the desired behavior.
```

> The `activate()` method is called with the setpoint from the previous task when the task is switched to, while `update()` is called during execution of the control loop to implement the task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `activate()` method is called when switching to the task and allows to initialize its state and take over gently from the passed over setpoints the previous task was just applying.

`update()` is called on every loop iteration during the execution and contains the core behavior implementation producing setpoints.
```

> By convention tasks are contained in a sub folder of [PX4-Autopilot/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/master/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks) (named after the task), and the source files are named with the prefix "FlightTask".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By convention tasks are contained in a subfolder of [PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks) named after the task, and the source files are named with the prefix "FlightTask".
```

The instructions below might be used to create a task named *MyTask*:

> 1. Create a directory for the new flight task in [PX4-Autopilot/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/master/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a directory for the new flight task in [PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/tree/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks).
```

   By convention the directory is named after the task, so we will call it **/MyTask**.
   ```
   mkdir PX4-Autopilot/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/MyTask
   ```
2. Create empty source code and *cmake* files for the new flight task in the *MyTask* directory using the prefix "FlightTask":
   - CMakeLists.txt
   - FlightTaskMyTask.hpp
   - FlightTaskMyTask.cpp
3. Update **CMakeLists.txt** for the new task

>    - Copy the contents of the **CMakeLists.txt** for another task - e.g. [AutoMapper/CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/AutoMapper/CMakeLists.txt)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Copy the contents of the **CMakeLists.txt** for another task - e.g. [Orbit/CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/tasks/Orbit/CMakeLists.txt)
```

   - Update the copyright to the current year
     ```cmake   
     ############################################################################
     #
     #   Copyright (c) 2021 PX4 Development Team. All rights reserved.
     #
     ```

>    - Modify the code to reflect the new task - e.g. replace `FlightTaskAutoMapper` with `FlightTaskMyTask`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Modify the code to reflect the new task - e.g. replace `FlightTaskOrbit` with `FlightTaskMyTask`.
```

     The code will look something like this:
     ```cmake 
     px4_add_library(FlightTaskMyTask
         FlightTaskMyTask.cpp
     )

     target_link_libraries(FlightTaskMyTask PUBLIC FlightTask)
     target_include_directories(FlightTaskMyTask PUBLIC ${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR})
     ```

4. Update the header file (in this case **FlightTaskMyTask.hpp**):
   Most tasks reimplement the virtual methods `activate()` and `update()`, and in this example we also have a private variable.
   ```cpp
   #pragma once

   #include "FlightTask.hpp"

   class FlightTaskMyTask : public FlightTask
   {
   public:
     FlightTaskMyTask() = default;
     virtual ~FlightTaskMyTask() = default;

     bool update();
     bool activate(vehicle_local_position_setpoint_s last_setpoint);

   private:

>      float _origin_z = 0.0f;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     float _origin_z{0.f};
```

   };
   ```
4. Update the cpp file as appropriate.
   This example provides as simple implementation of **FlightTaskMyTask.cpp** that simply indicates that the task methods are called.
   ```cpp
   #include "FlightTaskMyTask.hpp"

   bool FlightTaskMyTask::activate(vehicle_local_position_setpoint_s last_setpoint)
   {
     bool ret = FlightTask::activate(last_setpoint);

>      PX4_INFO("FlightTaskMyTask activate was called! ret:%d", ret); // check if engaged this mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     PX4_INFO("FlightTaskMyTask activate was called! ret: %d", ret); // report if activation was succesful
```

     return ret;
   }

   bool FlightTaskMyTask::update()
   {

>      PX4_INFO("FlightTaskMyTask update was called!"); // check updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     PX4_INFO("FlightTaskMyTask update was called!"); // report update
```

     return true;
   }
   ```

> 5. Add the new task to the list of tasks to be build in [/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/CMakeLists.txt):  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Add the new task to the list of tasks to be built in [PX4-Autopilot/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/CMakeLists.txt#L40):  
```

   ```

>    # add core flight tasks to list
>    list(APPEND flight_tasks_all
>      ManualAltitude
>      ManualAltitudeSmooth
>      ManualAltitudeSmoothVel
>      ManualPosition
>      ManualPositionSmooth
>      ManualPositionSmoothVel
>      AutoLineSmoothVel
>      AutoFollowMe
>      Offboard
>      Failsafe
>      Descend
>      Transition
>      MyTask
>      ${flight_tasks_to_add}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   list(APPEND flight_tasks_to_add
      Orbit
      MyTask
   )
```

   )
   ```
6. Update a flight mode to ensure that the task is called. 
   Usually a parameter is used to select when a particular flight task should be used.
   

>    For example, to enable our new `MyTask` in the Manual-Position control sub-mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For example, to enable our new `MyTask` in multicopter Position mode:
```

>    - Update `MPC_POS_MODE` ([mc_pos_control_params.c](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/mc_pos_control/mc_pos_control_params.c)) to add an option for selecting "MyTask" if the parameter==2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Update `MPC_POS_MODE` ([mc_pos_control_params.c](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/mc_pos_control/mc_pos_control_params.c#L706-L721)) to add an option for selecting "MyTask" if the parameter has a previously unused value like 5:
```

     ```
     ...

>      * @value 2 MyTask
>      * @value 3 Smooth position control (Jerk optimized)
>      * @group Multicopter Position Control
>      */
>      PARAM_DEFINE_INT32(MPC_POS_MODE, 3);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * @value 4 Acceleration based input
     * @value 5 MyTask position mode implementation
     * @group Multicopter Position Control
     */
    PARAM_DEFINE_INT32(MPC_POS_MODE, 4);
```

     ``` 

>    - Add a switch in [MulticopterPositionControl.cpp](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/mc_pos_control/MulticopterPositionControl.cpp) to enable the task when `MPC_POS_MODE==2`"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Add a case for your new option in the switch for the parameter [FlightModeManager.cpp](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/FlightModeManager.cpp#L266-L285) to enable the task when `_param_mpc_pos_mode` has the right value.
```

     ```cpp
     ...
     // manual position control
     ...

>      switch (_param_mpc_pos_mode.get()) {
>        case 1:
>           error =  _flight_tasks.switchTask(FlightTaskIndex::ManualPositionSmooth);
>           break;
> 
>        case 2: //Add option for new task: MyTask
>           error =  _flight_tasks.switchTask(FlightTaskIndex::MyTask);
>           break;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     switch (_param_mpc_pos_mode.get()) {
       ...
       case 3:
          error = switchTask(FlightTaskIndex::ManualPositionSmoothVel);
          break;
       case 5: // Add case for new task: MyTask
          error =  _flight_tasks.switchTask(FlightTaskIndex::MyTask);
          break;
	case 4:
	....
```

     ...
     ```
  

##  Test New Flight Task

To test the flight task you need to run the vehicle with the task enabled.

> For the example above, this means setting the parameter `MPC_POS_MODE=2`, taking off, and switching the vehicle to [Position mode](../flight_modes/position_mc.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the example above, this means setting the parameter `MPC_POS_MODE` to 5, taking off, and switching the vehicle to [Position mode](../flight_modes/position_mc.md).
```

:::note

> The task defined above should only be tested on the simulator (the code doesn't actually create setpoints so the vehicle will not fly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task defined above should only be tested on the simulator. The code doesn't actually create setpoints so the vehicle will not fly.
```

     ```

4. Update the header file (in this case **FlightTaskMyTask.hpp**):
   Most tasks reimplement the virtual methods `activate()` and `update()`, and in this example we also have a private variable.
   ```cpp
   #pragma once

   #include "FlightTask.hpp"

   class FlightTaskMyTask : public FlightTask
   {
   public:
     FlightTaskMyTask() = default;
     virtual ~FlightTaskMyTask() = default;

     bool update();
     bool activate(vehicle_local_position_setpoint_s last_setpoint);

   private:
     float _origin_z = 0.0f;
   };
   ```
4. Update the cpp file as appropriate.
   This example provides as simple implementation of **FlightTaskMyTask.cpp** that simply indicates that the task methods are called.
   ```cpp
   #include "FlightTaskMyTask.hpp"

   bool FlightTaskMyTask::activate(vehicle_local_position_setpoint_s last_setpoint)
   {
     bool ret = FlightTask::activate(last_setpoint);
     PX4_INFO("FlightTaskMyTask activate was called! ret:%d", ret); // check if engaged this mode.
     return ret;
   }

   bool FlightTaskMyTask::update()
   {
     PX4_INFO("FlightTaskMyTask update was called!"); // check updated.
     return true;
   }
   ```

> 5. Add the new task to the list of tasks to be build in [/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/CMakeLists.txt](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/lib/flight_tasks/tasks/CMakeLists.txt):  

Reviewer 2: @yutaide @MaEtUgR This does not appear to be true for master - I THINK you don't need to do this because CMAKE just searches the current tree for file names. Correct? Or do you explicitly have to add them still?

Author: @hamishwillee 
Thank you for your rework!
I'm not sure if this step is necessary or not since I'm not familiar with CMAKE.
@MaEtUgR  What do you think about this?

Reviewer: Thank you so much @hamishwillee !
You still have to add the name of your task but it's here on master:
https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/flight_mode_manager/CMakeLists.txt#L40

   
   For example, to enable our new `MyTask` in the Manual-Position control sub-mode:
   - Update `MPC_POS_MODE` ([mc_pos_control_params.c](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/mc_pos_control/mc_pos_control_params.c)) to add an option for selecting "MyTask" if the parameter==2:
     ```
     ...
     * @value 2 MyTask
     * @value 3 Smooth position control (Jerk optimized)
     * @group Multicopter Position Control
     */
     PARAM_DEFINE_INT32(MPC_POS_MODE, 3);
     ``` 
   - Add a switch in [MulticopterPositionControl.cpp](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/master/src/modules/mc_pos_control/MulticopterPositionControl.cpp) to enable the task when `MPC_POS_MODE==2`"
     ```cpp
     ...
     // manual position control
     ...
     switch (_param_mpc_pos_mode.get()) {
       case 1:
          error =  _flight_tasks.switchTask(FlightTaskIndex::ManualPositionSmooth);
          break;

       case 2: //Add option for new task: MyTask
          error =  _flight_tasks.switchTask(FlightTaskIndex::MyTask);
          break;
     ...
     ```
  

##  Test New Flight Task

> To test the flight stack you need to run the vehicle with the task enabled.

Author: Is this `flight stack` or flight task ?
If this does not matter, please just ignore.

For the example above, this means setting the parameter `MPC_POS_MODE=2`, taking off, and switching the vehicle to [Position mode](../flight_modes/position_mc.md).

> This would normally be done on the simulator.

Author: If someone follow this docs and test a flight with real vehicle, the vehicle may be start falling after switching MyTask mode because no setpoint is set.
Maybe some caution should be written...?

Reviewer 2: I've modified this to make the point that it won't fly. Good catch :-)
